## ABOUT THE SEEKER
The A2A Group is the largest Italian multi utility, at the forefront of territorial services and technological solutions. We design smart and sustainable cities, with respect for the citizens, we are protagonists of energy transition, and we implement the principle of the circular economy in all of our activities. With a far-reaching strategic plan, we manage the generation, sale and distribution of electricity and gas, district heating, waste collection and recovery, e-mobility, public lighting, and the integrated water services.

## ABSTRACT
Agrophotovoltaic is making inroads in Italy following the investment in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) of the Next Generation EU funds, which allocates around 2% of agricultural land to the installation of photovoltaic systems. The aim of the measure is to combine solar panels and food crops on the same unit of land in order to maximize the use of land and RES share while maintaining its fertility. A2A therefore aims to identify the best crops in Italy that can be coupled with PV systems without being impacted or benefiting from the presence of PV system. Agrophotovoltaic structures can differ from standard ground-mounted PV ones, in fact they can be designed taller, movable, semitransparent, … to maximize the crops growth, hence taking into account various factors such as their diffusion in the agricultural business, cultivation techniques and the performance of the crop.

## Overview
Agrophotovoltaic is today an increasingly emerging business in Italy, especially following the huge investments of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) that in 2021 has allocated about 1.1 billion euro for its development. The objective of the investment in agrophotovoltaic is to install, when fully operational, a production capacity from agrophotovoltaic plants of 1.04 GW, with an average annual production of about 1,300 GWh per year and a consequent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of about 0.8 million tons of CO2, without the compromise of land dedicated to agriculture.

To succeed in doing this, it is necessary to identify the crops which can best adapt to the presence of photovoltaic panels, and even taking advantage of them thanks to the presence of PV system. A2A therefore aims to identify the best crops that can grow together with future agrophotovoltaic plants which will be designed with the objective of maximizing the cultivation of crops, hence taking into account various factors such as their diffusion in the agricultural business, cultivation techniques and the performance of the crop.